... Conduct Amendment Bill. And so, uh, we've got, uh, Lynne
McMorrin here from Financial Services Federation.
Lynne, as you know, we're under a bit of time pressure, but we're in your hands, so
welcome.
Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for the opportunity for the Financial
Services Federation to speak to our submission on this bill.
As you can see from our submission, the FSF is the industry body representing the
specialist lending sector operating in New Zealand, and our members have over
1.5 million New Zealand consumers and businesses who choose to be their
customers. As we said in our written submission, the FSF is supportive of
the intent of the amendments to climate-related disclosure obligations as outlined
in the amendment paper, but we believe that they could go further.
At present, only two of our 100 members are required to meet climate-related
disclosure obligations as they currently stand.
The proposed changes to the definitions the amendment will make will not change
that, and both entities will continue to be subject to the requirement to make
climate-related disclosures. Whilst the remainder of our members do not have
to make their own disclosures, it's often the case that they have to provide some
form of disclosure to other entities with whom they interact.
For example, their funding partners such as the large banks as part of their
partners' disclosure obligations.
The cost to a business of being compliant with their climate-related disclosure
obligations has been significant, and our listed issuing reporting
member reports that the data quality is dubious due to subjective
interpretation and assumptions that have to be made.
The FSF questions whether the imposition of the climate-related disclosure regime
has made any appreciable dif- difference
to... Has done has created significant
cost to business and a lucrative sideline for professional advisors in assisting
reporting entities to meet their obligations.
This results in highly qualified opinions providing meaningless
assurance. The climate-related disclosure regime is a strong
disincentive to companies becoming listed issuers, and the New Zealand Stock
Exchange and the in- investing public suffers as a result.
This relax in a- uh, results in a lack of diversity and reduces
the options for businesses to raise capital to grow and be more productive and to
contribute more to the New Zealand economy.
The FSF believes that the climate-related disclosure regime could usefully b- be
eliminated entirely, and we do not believe that in doing so the emissions
emanating from reporting entities would appreciably change from where they are
now. Failing that, however, the FSF strongly suggests that
committee consider further raising the reporting threshold beyond the pro-
proposed one billion to at least two billion, if not
five. That's essentially our submission and I'm happy to take any
questions.
Okay. Thanks, Lynne. I've got a question here from Marina Williams.
Hi, Lynne. Um, good-
Hi.
... to see you and thank you for coming along.
Um-
Thank you. Good to see you.
A- a quick question about, um, you've described the problem with, um,
dubious decisions being made along the way on these reporting, um,
decisions that get made within a business.
Um, do you agree with, um, some submitters, say the submission
of Chapman Tripp which suggests a purpose clause to make this clearer and to
address the problem that you're highlighting there?
Oh, without a doubt. I, I think, yeah, raising the threshold and making
it clearer as to what the obligations actually are. They're very opaque.
I think there was, there was an entire industry sort of developed
around helping entities to meet their climate reporting,
uh, disclosure obligations because it was so unclear as to what
exactly they were supposed to be reporting on.
Um, and I think, um, you know, I've sat in on a number of meetings
around what was required and came away none the wiser from
most of them, to be fair. Um, and I think, you know, it, it became an exercise
in just ticking boxes and doing what had to, um, you know, being seen to be
doing what needed to be done but really not actually contributing
anything worthwhile to the discussion.
Okay.
Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Uh, Dr. Wilson?
Yes. Thank you, Lynne. Um, can you explain to us what reasoning you
have behind, uh, raising the threshold
to two to five billion? What's-
Well, I think, uh-
... the rationale? ... particularly for... Well, for the listed issuers, uh, so as I say, we have two
members who currently have to disclose.
Um, one is a listed issuer and one is a building society.
Um, the listed issuer, uh, obviously, m- um, is beyond the
threshold of the 60 million as it currently stands, and the building
society s- is just above that one billion threshold.
Um, it is a really strong disincentive for anybody to list on the, on the Stock
Exchange in New Zealand if they have to, uh, put in place
the climate-related disclosure obligations.
Um, and, you know, a $1 billion company is not an enormous-sized company when you
consider, you know, large banks, large insurers, larger, larger
entities. Um, and I think that's a, a, you know, as a disincentive
for becoming a listed issuer, I think that does New Zealand a disservice in a lot
of ways. Um, it's sort of well-recognized that the New Zealand Stock
Exchange, um, doesn't, um, have a broad
range of listings and that doesn't then provide a diversified, um,
investment range of options. Um, and I think that, you know,
by raising the threshold, that might encourage more people to seek capital,
uh, capital raising through l- becoming a listed entity.
Um, but climate-related disclosure is definitely a, a
dis- a, a strong incentive to doing so.
Okay. No, loud and clear. No, thank you, uh, Lynne, for your, um,
supplementary submission and appearing before the committee this afternoon.
You're welcome. Thank you for the time.
Thank you. Okay, members, that takes us to the Investor Group
on Climate Change, also
online.
Okay. We've got Frankie Muskovic
here.
Hello.
Good, good afternoon.
Good afternoon. Thanks for having me. I can assume you can hear me.
Yes, we can. No, yeah, we've got 10 minutes or so.
Um, we're in your hands.
Great. Well, kia ora. I'm Frankie Muskovic from the Investor
Group on Climate Change. Our membership comprises
institutional investors with interests in Australia and New Zealand, focused on
the impact of climate change on the retirement savings of their
beneficiaries and client investment outcomes.
Uh, we represent investors with total funds under management of over 5
trillion in Australia and New Zealand, and over 40 trillion around the
world.At a time when climate risks are
increasingly manifesting as severe economic damage, the
proposal to significantly shrink coverage of Aotearoa New
Zealand's climate-related disclosures regime and remove
applicability to manage investment scheme managers altogether will
undermine investor confidence in New Zealand businesses.
The success of your government's economic growth agenda will
depend on the country's ability to attract global investment in what
is an increasingly competitive landscape.
Far from attracting capital, this move will undermine the government's agenda
by removing a critical transparency measure.
And a significant reduction in the number of reporting entities will
fragment the landscape and hinder informed investment
decisions. I would note that we're, we're living in a
context where many jurisdictions have introduced mandatory climate
reporting, including Australia, the European Union, the
UK, California. And once a leader, New Zealand
risks falling behind countries like China, Chile, and
Singapore, some of the 40 jurisdictions looking to
adopt the International Sustainability Standards Board
standards for mandatory climate reporting.
Raising the reporting threshold for listed equity and debt issuers from
60 million to one billion will exclude a substantial proportion
of the economy from reporting obligations.
That removes critical transparency for investors on how a wide range of
companies are managing financially material climate
risks. We note the consultation by MB only
contemplated a maximum increase to the threshold of
550 million, and it's unclear on what evidence and
rationale the decision to almost double that proposed maximum is
based. Indeed, we understand there was relatively little support for
raising the threshold to even the 550 million upper limit
from respondents to that consultation.
The wholesale removal of managed investment scheme managers from the regime
is also troubling. Those entities manage approximately
230 billion in assets, capital that is exposed
to climate-related risks and opportunities.
And preempting the refinements that XRB indicated were under
consideration to make the regime more suitable for investors and smaller
entities is a radical step, and it weakens stewardship and
accountability across the financial system.
Uh, we urge the government to reconsider these changes and maintain a
strong, credible climate disclosure regime.
Investors need transparency, consistency, and accountability.
And these changes come at a time when reporting entities have only just
recently built capacity to meet the current
requirements. I would note that in the early phases of
introducing, uh, reforms like this, it takes a little
while for industry, uh, and, you know, companies to get their
heads wrapped around this, and flip-flopping and going the other way is
only gonna add to that uncertainty, uh, in the longer
term. So again, once again, we urge the
government to reject these changes and instead, uh, move
ahead with the process that XRB was already in train to
deliver in terms of refinements to the scheme.
I'm really happy to take any questions. Thanks.
Hmm. Okay. Thank you very much. We're gonna go to, uh, Dr. Megan Woods.
(clears throat) Thank you very much for your submission.
Um, (clears throat) I'm just interested in what you raise around
the, the policy uncertainty and how this will misalign us with
a number of other companies that we are looking really to compete
for capital, uh, with an investment incoming capital.
But I'm interested in the, the trading aspect that you note in your submission,
that actually 80% of our trading partners will have
disclosure regimes, and, um, whether you, whether you think there'll be any
potential impacts here.
Yeah. That's right. And so, um, n- none of us, even
though we're physically islands, um, we're, we're globally
so interconnected when it comes to the investment landscape.
And if you consider New Zealand's major trading
partners, the vast majority of them either have
mandatory related, uh, climate disclosures in place, uh, or are
considering it. And so, you know, w- whilst the view
might be, um, from some companies that this is an onerous
requirement, uh, r- removing or radically
raising that threshold is gonna put New Zealand businesses at a strong
disadvantage when it comes to attracting that global investment.
There are strong regimes in, and that have been in place for some time,
uh, in the EU, the UK. Uh, Australia's
regime is rolling out now. And I think investors will look
at what's happening in New Zealand and wonder, "If there's a
change in government in a couple of years' time, am I going to see yet
another reversal?" That kind of uncertainty does not
(laughs) does not, uh, provide an attractive investment landscape for
investors. And countries like New Zealand and Australia rely
on global investment. So this is not just a decision that can be
taken, uh, you know, with a view of domestic businesses
only. You have to consider the views, uh, and,
and frankly the requirements of global investors that will be looking at
your market.
Thank you.
Thanks, Dr. Woods. I'm gonna go to Erina Williams.
Thanks, Frankie. Um, I wonder if you could step us through the decision-making for
a major investor. Say, um, you're a fund manager based out of
Australia. You've got, um, some different sorts of offerings
including, like, a green fund, but another fund that, um, is
aimed at, um, your average consumer.
What kind of information can you get about New Zealand companies now
versus New Zealand companies under the regime change, and how
is that impacting your investment decisions, um, if, you
know, any other DD you have to do is going to take, take, you
know, more work and impact on the level of investment that you can
make?
Well, I think part of the reason that having a disclosure regime that
covers, you know, at least a significant portion of companies,
you know, and, and listed equities and things like that-
Mm-hmm.
... um, is that it gives investors a better overall sense of how
investable, um, you know, a, a market is.
And so by raising the, I guess, the proposal to raise this
threshold so significantly means you're capturing such a small
proportion, um, of New Zealand businesses, uh, that it means
that when an investor's got, you know, disclosures, um, that
they might have from, I don't know, companies in Australia or, or the
EU that have been, you know, doing these disclosures for a number of
years, I think we'd all acknowledge, right, the initial, uh,
rollout of these, um, reforms takes a while to
sort through teething issues. Uh, you've gotta, you've gotta work
through, you know, the, the level of confidence around assurance and
things like that. But that does smooth out over time.
So if I'm a business and I'm looking at investments in real
assets or infrastructure and I know that those assets are
subject to, uh, physical risks from
increasing, uh, extreme weather events, uh, you know, heat and
things like that, and I've got a company that has done the work to map its
risks, uh, tell me how they're addressing those risks, that
is a less risky investment, uh, to an investor, where that
information is not so easily visible.
And it's, it basically comes down to, uh, the, the
company's approach to risk management.
It's a core issue. And if companies aren't doing this
and, and providing disclosures in a public way on
climate, which is an increasingly significant, uh, risk for
companies, then it's going to... You know, if all other things are
equal, investors will choose an investment in a company that has
looked at those risks and is-
Mm-hmm.
... actively managing them.
Okay. Okay. Dr. David Wilson, you got a quick one?
Thank you. Um, Ms. Maskovic, uh, could you tell us, um, do you think
that, um, concern, public concern and
social license and competitive environments are not
enough in and of themselves for companies to
outline their cre- you know, their climate responsibilities and
report?
I think it's important, uh, for companies to, to engage
with community in, uh, particularly in the rollout of new
infrastructure. It's an and, not an or.
Um, I think we have to be conscious of the different audiences,
um, you know, for, for different
i- uh, initiatives. And, you know, climate-related
financial disclosures, uh, have a variety of purposes.
Um, I'm obviously speaking from an investor perspective, and it's a crucial
input to decision-making, um, but, but
disclosures can also be useful, uh, to, to
consumers, uh, or s- key stakeholders that want to
understand how businesses are looking at those risks and managing
them. So-
I-
... I, I always consider it an and, not an or.
Okay. Thank- thank you. Thank you, Frankie. Thank you, Dr. Wilson.
Um, thank you for your supplementary submission and appearing before us,
uh, this afternoon.
Thanks. Thanks for having me.
Thank you. Okay. That brings us to a live
appearance, uh, of NZX Limited. Um, we've got
Kristen, K- Kirsten... Sorry. We have got
Kristen, not Kirsten, Kristen Brandon, and we've got Simon
Beattie, um, from NZX
Limited. And as they go to the table, can I
note, uh, Mr. Beattie, that next month marks 40
years since we started secondary school together?
(laughs)
And, and I have to say that I'm holding up remarkably well.
You may be Mr. Chair, but I'm still scarred.
(laughs)
Okay. Well, let's keep to topic today, please.
We're under a time-
No,
(laughs)
(laughs) (laughs) We are under a tight time pressure. Back to the bill, please.
Back to the bill.
(laughs)
Back to the bill. Okay. No, welcome, um, uh, to you
both, and we look forward to your submission.
Thank you, Mr. Chair, and for that warm welcome, which is quite hard to follow.
Um, I'm Kristen Brandon. I'm the head of policy at NZX and also chair
of the NZX Corporate Governance Institute.
I'll just let Simon introduce himself.
Uh, thank you, Kristen. Uh, good afternoon, uh, Mr.
Chair and members of the committee.
I'm Simon Beattie, Head of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability at
NZX.
Um, we'd like to thank you and the committee members for letting us present this
submission to you today. We are here as, um, we were introduced to
represent NZX, which is New Zealand's exchange.
As a member of the Stock, Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative and the Sustainable
Business Council, NZX supports climate reporting and a climate-resilient
future for New Zealand. We're here today to support the proposals contained in
the amendment paper before the Select Committee, which we consider to be practical
and sensible amendments that have been warmly welcomed by the listed market.
We'll now briefly outline the key points in our submission and we would then be
happy to take questions. I'm gonna hand over to Simon.
Thank you.
Thanks, Kristen. First of all, NZX supports the amendment
paper's proposed increases to the CRD reporting thresholds to $1
billion, which will create more proportionate
settings. These changes will allow smaller
issuers or companies listed on the exchange to focus on
climate change mitigation, transition, and
adaptation, rather than reporting and
compliance. The costs of climate
reporting are not strongly correlated with issuer size
and are not scalable.
Companies have told us that the New Zealand climate reporting
disclosure settings have been prohibitive to listing.
Mm-hmm.
Likewise, listed companies have told NZX the settings, costs, and
requirements could cause them to
delist.The report Lessons From The
Line published by the Institute of Directors and KPMG
interviewed leading directors on this aspect, who characterized the
qua- the costs as, quote, "Eye-wateringly
high, horrendous, and hard to
justify." For example, Turner's climate reporting
costs have been publicly reported as more than a million
dollars.
The proposed changes to the thresholds, we believe are balanced,
and support listed companies' ability to grow,
invest, and create more and better-paying jobs for New
Zealanders. The threshold changes outlined in the amendment
paper will provide New Zealand investors greater access to
investable product, including green and sustainable
products, like green bonds, that may support New Zealand's
transition to net zero greenhouse gas emissions by
2050.
NZX also strongly supports the proposals to create a proportionate liability
framework for directors. These changes create settings that should
both reduce costs relating to insurance, legal advice, and
assurance and encourage CREs to report further information related to
climate risks and opportunities for their business.
These changes remove a barrier to listing for, for New Zealand
companies. We expect the flow-on effects of these changes to include
broadening of the director candidate pool in New Zealand and encouraging more
diversity on boards, including in relation to first-time directors.
We consider that the amended liability framework re- will result in better
corporate governance and climate reporting outcomes for New Zealand.
And we're now happy to take any questions.
Okay. Thanks, uh, Kristin. Right. We're gonna go to Arena Williams.
Thank you. And thanks, both, for, um, being able to have, uh, submit
to us today in person. Um, just wanna ask about, uh, something you
said. Um, you know,
whatever you think about these changes, we do want to con- ke- to keep seeing
businesses invest in that adaptation and risk mitigation
part of what we hope they are doing.
Um, with your submission about changing directors' liabilities,
that seems to be one area where you could continue to drive more business
behavior to make active decision-making decisions around the governance table to
prioritize that. Um, are we getting out of step with
directors' obligations in Australia if we, uh, walk back some of
those directors' oversight functions that are not directly related to the reporting
but are related to the mitigation, risk adaptation part of their
work?
I'll, I'll just-
You can.
(laughs)
Okay. I'll, I'll just speak on it at a high level.
What we've seen, and the experience of what we've seen and what we've heard from,
from, uh, listed issuers is because of the deemed
director settings at, at the moment, in which directors are criminally
liable for a company's statements and their forward-looking
statements, that the, the, the, the risk
has focused on directors and not on the business around reducing climate
risk and the focus on mitigation and adaptation and, and the
transition, and the effort's gone into protecting directors and
organizations because of where the settings lie.
What we would like to see is for those settings to change so we see more
action in regards to the, to the, the things we're talking about, which is
reducing company emissions and reducing, um, New
Zealand's emissions overall.
H- how do you think, um, and directors would be better incentivized to
prioritize that, to put it at the top of the agenda if
we, you know, go ahead with the policy change which we don't necessarily agree
with. But if you are undertaking this change, how do we keep that on the agenda for
boards?
I, I think for directors to discharge their duties, they still need to be thinking
about what is in the best interests of the company.
And we would expect them to be thinking about what information is relevant for
their investors. So I guess our view is that by, by remove, by
changing the thresholds and removing this very prescriptive framework with the
associated li- liability, that you'll still receive rich disclosures
around climate risks and opportunities but that there won't be...
those efforts can actually be more focused on the quality of the information, um,
in thinking about actual adaption strategies rather than spending a lot of time
thinking about legal risks and assurance, um, provision.
Okay.
Okay. I'm gonna go to our Deputy Chair, Ryan Hamilton.
Um, thanks, Chair. And I guess just sort of supplementary to that, um, in terms
of incentives, um, um...
Oh, just had a question there, and it's gone.
But it was more around, by adjusting the settings...
Oh, you touched about in your submission, but could you expand on some things a
little bit more? Could you touch on those things?
Do you mean in terms of bringing some of the exemptions into the legislation?
Yeah. The amendment, you said you support it, but we could go a little bit further.
Yes.
Can
So there's some quite technical amendments that the FMA has granted as class
exemptions. Um, they relate to including a reference in your annual
report to where your climate statements are available, and, um, that exemption, the
result of that is that it effectively allows, um, climate-reporting entities more
time to report. So we think that that would be a useful thing to bring
into the legislation. Um, there's a s- also an exemption of
thinking about foreign issuers and, and the reporting obligations.
And at the moment, they need to report if their, um, business presence in New
Zealand is large. And again, we think that sort of an exemption, and the
FMA is proposing to actually think about potentially excluding Australian issuers
from the regime-
Right. ... are useful things that could be brought into the legislation.
And that's because without it sitting in legislation, the FMA needs to go
through a class exemption process for new exemptions.
It creates some burden, I guess, on industry to be submitting into that process
and, and is sort of somewhat, uh, inefficient.
So we can tidy that up a bit.
Yeah. For, for example, if they're already listed in Australia, why do they need to
report twice, both-
Right.
... in Australia and New Zealand, if they've already gone through a verification
process?
Mm-hmm. Okay. Very good. Todd Stephenson?
Thank you, and thank you for being here.
I mean, you briefly outlined, um, yeah, why some companies may choose
not to list or delist. But can you also, 'cause since you're from the
NZX, just outline how competitive is it to get
investors, uh, to invest in companies, not just, well, obviously in New
Zealand, but obviously people can take their capital and their
money, investment money anywhere in the world.
Like, how competitive is the landscape we're talking about?
Well, capital always flows to where it's most efficient, so it's trying to
balance the efficiencies of the market with the right settings, and that's what
we're hoping to achieve by supporting this amendment.
And there's been a lot of significant reforms this year, including, um, the removal
of the requirement for prospective financial information, which I guess is we're
kind of thinking about here, the removal of the, um, unsubstantiated
representation liability. So w- we're seeing good
regulatory settings that should foster that- that flow of money to New Zealand and
New Zealand companies.
Thank you. Okay, Kate, did you have one, uh, short question at any rate?
Uh, very short then. Um, can you help the committee, um,
with some of those changes which would make us...
W- which would put us better on par with Australian issuers
and to relieve some of the admin burden for
Australian companies with a presence here, but at the same time making sure that
we've got similar settings, um, so that, you know, those two
regimes talk to each other?
Do you mean more broadly or in relation to climate?
W- if we are as a committee to consider the amendments that you've put to us, which
we will do, we haven't had submissions on those, so it's useful if you can kind
of provide us with a bit more, um, context around
the other things that we need to seek advice on.
Um, what I would say is these proposed changes do
align us more with Australia in- in the shorter term.
Um, the other thing that NZX has, uh, has been pushing for,
because we look after the listed market, is also consideration of the unlisted
market so it's a level playing field for- for climate reporting longer
term, so it's not just the listed market that has to
report.
Okay, right. We'll- we'll have to leave it there.
Thank you so much for appearing before us, uh, today-
Thank
you. ... and for your supplementary, um, submission to, um, Kristin and to
Simon. Simon being the general manager of corporate affairs and
sustainability. It's quite a lofty title he carries these days, so
thank you.
Balancing act. (laughs)
(laughs) Thank you, thank
you. (laughs) Thanks, Simon.
Are we still friends?
(laughs)
Probably not. Simon will say we never were.
Um-
Okay, Responsible Investment Association of Australasia.
Um, got Dean online? Yes.
Okay, Dean, let's go. Thank you for your patience.
We look forward to it.
No, look, thank you, and, uh, thank you for the opportunity to contribute, uh, by
today but also through, uh, what has been a- a- a really good and positive
submission process. Uh, so, uh, ko Dean Hinga te toku ingoa.
I'm the co-CEO of the Responsible Investment Association of
Australasia. I'm the New Zealand-based co-CEO.
We're the industry body for responsible investment.
We have, uh, a global investor base, uh, who are our member base,
uh, who manage over $80 trillion in assets
globally. Uh, within the Australia market we have all the major retail super funds
and asset managers. Excuse me. Uh, and in New Zealand's, uh,
92% of the KiwiSaver market as well as all of the major, uh, private
wealth, uh, providers, and so the vast majority of assets under management were
within New Zealand. Uh, you've read the submission.
I know you've already heard from a number of other industry bodies, uh, many of
whom share similar concerns to some of these changes, uh, that we
do. Uh, so I wanted to start today just by being quite clear
that, uh, the current regime is far from perfect. I think there's...
We'd all acknowledge that there's lots of opportunity to improve outcomes, to
reduce the burdens that are on business, while hopefully
maintaining the majority of the benefits that the reporting actually
gives us. And I know there's been a huge amount of focus on costs, but very little,
uh, or not as much as we believe is...
uh, should be on the, uh, the actual benefits that come from this.
So, uh, I know there's- there's already a lot of work that's actually been done
through the XRB and, uh, around the potential of, uh, differential
frameworks,
uh, I'm sorry, differential reporting frameworks, which actually would meet a lot
of the challenges that a lot of the organizations are facing.
And our concern is not so much that there are changes, uh, but it's the dramatic
scale of the changes, uh, which actually really
exceeds what was even consulted on initially.
So three key things I'll highlight very quickly, uh, and I'm more than happy to
take questions. Uh, the one, and- and I guess the- the biggest one I'd highlight
is that we are living in a global capital market, uh, and we are
a country that unfortunately does not dictate terms to that global capital
market. And this is a move that is just completely out of step
with global developments. Climate risk, uh, the subsequent
investment risk that it represents, it's becoming better understood every
day. Uh, the impacts of it is becoming more pronounced every day.
Uh, and the increased reporting required to help assess and
price the risk, uh, is something that is only growing.
So by increasing these thresholds so significantly, we're
reducing New Zealand companies' capability to understand and to
communicate that risk. Right? Global investors need this
information so that they can access any risk when they're investing in New
Zealand and/or in- investing, uh, in companies within
the country. I think that's really important as well.
Um, there's the investment they make within the reporting entities, but also
broader investment that goes, uh, within New Zealand.
Um, and whether they're big, uh, or it's specific projects, information from
smaller businesses is actually necessary to determine what their risk is.
Inconsistent reporting leads to unreliable and incomparable data.
That's where we came from, and that is where we're gonna go back to, uh, if these
thresholds are maintained. S- what that means is that the
opportunity for investment is lost, uh, and we are increasing
inefficiency that is associated with it.
Also want to be really clear about the signal that this sends to global
investors. Right? Um, you know, there's already been lots of discussion about
the, you know, the competitive nature of capital.
There is simply no shortage, uh, of places for what
is a huge amount of capital that's looking for a home to go. Right?
Um, we are in a scenario where global policy is moving
so quickly, and New Zealand was seen as a leader in this space.
It's an area where if you're standing still, you are moving backwards, uh,
and if you are actively moving backwards as we are, uh, it
really puts us, and takes us from being in a leading position, uh,
into laggard position really, really quickly.Second thing
I'll, uh, comment. Uh, w— totally agree on the importance of aligning with
Australia, uh, completely disagree that this is in any way making us more
aligned to Australia. Uh, and there are several aspects that actually make it, uh,
w- will ensure that we are less aligned with Australia, um, and it will take
us further out of step with their policy. They're currently implementing this.
Uh, that implementation is based on financial reporting thresholds which are based
on revenue and assets. That's now very much being the global norm.
Um, we continue to use market cap which doesn't reflect the
size and significance of entities on the economy, and I think frankly the
idea of sort of trying to match thresholds dollar-for-dollar
with an economy that is seven times the size of ours, uh,
removes any concept of proportionate risk, uh, and I think it's a very
long way from common sense. And I think if you look at, uh, the pension market, you
know, the KiwiSaver, uh, balance on a good day is about
$120 billion, right? In Australia, the only pension scheme is over $4
trillion, uh, and growing at a faster rate than ours.
And so the idea that we match thresholds dollar-for-dollar does not make
sense. Uh, and finally, yeah, just speaking to the mis-, you know,
management removal, um, again, completely out of alignment with the
Australian market. Uh, it means that our legislation will now be totally
different. Uh, I think it's really, uh, the idea of
differentiated reporting, as I mentioned earlier, uh, is a really valid one.
Um, but to completely remove it just weakens market transparency, it
takes information away from consumers, uh, it's, it's
completely out of alignment with even what the KiwiSaver market was asking for.
And I think we've got to be really clear that, um, yes, there are some small
entities who it w- did place a large burden on, um, but there are some
huge entities dealing, who are managing $20, $30, $40
billion of New Zealand's capital, uh, and I think the suggestion that
they're too small to be, uh, doing climate reporting just doesn't stack up.
And what would be far more beneficial is to take the learnings from the
first round and improve and iterate it to make sure that, uh, we're
making better use of the time and energy that's already been used.
Okay, thank you, Dean. I'm gonna go to, um, Dr.
Megan Woods, and then I'm gonna go to Julie Anne Genter.
(clears throat) Hi, Dean. Good to see you, and thank you for the submission.
(clears throat)
Now, I know your organization has done a huge amount of work in terms of
tracking the, the, the (clears throat) , the benefits and the
implementation of this regime. I'm really interested in you
saying the regime's not perfect, there are changes we could make, um, and
I think any scheme is always gonna have that.
Um, so if you had to pick three things that we could improve about the
current scheme, what would they be?
So, uh, I wouldn't even need three.
I think the differentiated reporting is going to-
Sure, okay.
... i- is the key piece, uh, and-
Yeah.
... differentiated reporting for mismanagers would allow them to create, uh, and
is, was going to allow them to create reports that have really
valuable information but are also able to be useful and fit for
purpose for the organizations that they're operating within, because the
original, uh, issue is they're creating reports that just aren't as valuable as
they could be for the company. The other big one is, is the, that threshold
adjustment. Um, absolutely there were smaller mismanagers-
Sure.
... uh, who had an unnecessary burden placed on them, but the larger ones, uh, are
absolutely both capable of, have the resources, and have invested
already in upskilling. So the upskillings happen, they've incurred the
costs, they now don't get to take advantage of the opportunities because there
won't be aligned reporting.
So MBIE's initial consultation had 550 million
as the threshold.
That's appeared in the legislation now as a billion.
Where do you think that-
Yeah.
... kind of line should be?
Uh, yeah, I think about halfway is probably right, but again it's, um, yeah,
there, I, I think there's, there's an argument to be made that the thresholds
didn't need to be raised as quickly as they were.
Again, given that most who have gone through the process, um,
have done the investment, right? They've hired the people they needed, they've got
the internal systems, they've got the data set up.
Uh, but absolutely if you were going to adjust, it needed to be an adjustment,
not, absolutely not a complete removal.
Okay. I'm gonna go to Julie Anne Genter.
Thank you.
Thank you, Dr. Woods.
Thank you so much for your submission, um, and your written submission's
particularly helpful. I just wanted to know if you had any comment
on the previous, um, submitter's claims that
reducing requirements to disclose, to measure,
disclose, and have any sort of, um, uh,
liability for directors. Um, is
it realistic to think that those changes would still lead to
organizations, uh, measuring and mitigating, uh,
climate emissions and, and
risk?
Uh, I think it is... Uh, look, the
more, uh, the more liable everybody is in this process, the more likely there
are to be robust, uh, and, um, you know, real decisions
being made. There's also, uh, I would say though there's no doubt that
having director liability, as serious as it was, makes this
more of a compliance requirement, and does
reduce the opportunity for organizations to report in a way
that is more aspirational and, and probably be more sort of cutting
edge. But again, the difficulty is at the moment, um, rather than
testing out the impact of director liability, uh, we're actually just taking away
so much reporting all in one swoop that we won't know what the benefit
could potentially be. We're just gonna incur all of the loss of,
uh, aligned data and all of the increased inefficiency.
Okay, we'll have to leave it there, Dean.
Thank you, uh, for your supplementary submission and for appearing before us,
uh, this afternoon.
Kia ora, thank you.
Thank you.
Yep.
Okay, that takes us to Paul Johnson, CE of Tower
Insurance.
There we go. Good afternoon, everybody.
Paul.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, good, good afternoon. If you're able to leave us with plenty of time for
questions, 'cause we're under a bit of time pressure, as you can imagine.
Thank you.
Of course, absolutely. Um, look, thank you very much everybody.
I'm, I apologize that I can't be with you in person today.
I'm currently visiting our Fiji office in Suva, actually.
Oh.
How horrible.
Um, so look, we at Tawa welcome the proposed changes to the
climate-related disclosure regime, but we do believe that they should go further.
Under the revised thresholds, Tawa wouldn't be captured as a, as a listed
insurer, yet we do remain in scope still as a licensed
insurer because of our premium revenue.
This creates an inconsistency that places a disproportionate compliance
burden on New Zealand-based insurers like us, um, especially
given our market share of the general insurance market compared to the scale of the
Australian duopoly. Uh, a more streamlined approach would still
ensure climate-related risks are disclosed by insurers of significant
economic scale, um, but they would also though free up resources for
what really matters, which is innovations that actually manage climate risks
and deliver environments and social, environmental and social
benefits. At Tawa, managing climate risk isn't just a regulatory
requirement for us, it's actually part of who we are.
You know, we've been protecting New Zealanders and the Pacific for 150
years, uh, and we want to be here for another 150 years.
Um, we've already invested heavily in climate-related data technology,
innovated products to help customers prepare and recover from weather events.
Um, and these investments started well before the climate reporting
regime came into place. Um, our, our
focus and our passion is on innovating products to support customers
through changing weather patterns.
Um, and investing in climate-related data and technology to
do this is critical for our business, and it's critical for the survival of
our business already. Um, I'd also note that we're
proud to have exceeded our five-year emissions reductions targets, uh, which
started before the implementation of the CRD regime.
Um, but what we don't love, and what doesn't make a meaningful
difference to us as a business and to climate resilience for us, is
tying up people and money and producing highly detailed
reports that then have to be reviewed by expensive lawyers and
auditors, um, to make sure that they comply
absolutely, and then these aren't even necessarily read by investors or
stakeholders. Um, and so we do believe very strongly that these
resources could be better spent helping customers and communities adapt and
recover. It's important to note that as a listed company, we
would still disclose non-financial information, other, other reporting
requirements, and our public disclosures before the CRD
regime already included climate risks, capital deployment, and
strategic responses aligned with climate risks.
So, thank you, and I'm happy to take questions.
Okay, thank you. Okay, I'm gonna go to Irena Williams first.
(laughs)
Oh. (laughs) Hello, Paul, congratulations on your win last week at the Deloitte Top
200 Awards.
Ah.
Thank you. Nice to see you there too. Thank you.
(laughs)
I just wanna ask you about, um, what the changes will
mean, uh, in practice for, um, those businesses that
have, um, needed to comply with the rules and then will
not. Um, and as you say, um, you know, we
want to, I think everyone wants to continue to see businesses investing
in adaptation and helping customers, um, to mitigate
their risks. So how, um, are there some of these
changes which, um, assist with that, and are there some
of these changes which do not assist with that?
Interested in, um, your thoughts around the directors' obligations too.
Yeah. So, well, do that one first if that's r- all right.
Uh, so yeah, we absolutely do support the, um, re- re-
removing the liability on directors, um, and, and the
proposed adjustments. You know, c- climate statements, good climate
statements are inherently forward-looking, um, and so therefore, you know, they
do involve significant uncertainty.
And so, you know, the ability for a director to gain the same level
of comfort over a forward-looking statement is
obviously very different from what they can gain over something like a financial
statement, particularly for us as a listed entity, um, which is, which is a
backward-looking, uh, you know, production of our, our results.
So, what that actually means is that we end up with excessive risk a-
aversion in what we report and talk about publicly, um,
and, and even potentially what we do internally as well so that we can, uh, avoid
that, or so we can ensure our directors avoid that liability.
So, so we do support those changes direc- to directors' liability.
If I come back to your first half of your question, um, you
know, we've already employed a few people, uh, in our business who
now, you know, we, we employed them to actually help
us with the sustainability part of our business, but, but
in the last two years, they've spent more and more of their time-
Mm-hmm.
... and, and, you know, one of them is h- almost exclusively on his time around
very detailed reporting to make sure that we comply with these requirements.
So, the first thing that we would do is free them up (laughs)
- (laughs) ... um, in order to be able to work with our product and underwriting teams and
across our, across all of our business, uh, in order to actually innovate
even further and, and think about and, and drive more innovative solutions for
customers. Um, the second thing that we'd do, of course, is not
spend money with external auditors and lawyers reviewing all of
these, these statements. Um, and, and we'd, we'd spend that money
on, on things for customers, or of course, we could just drop it straight to the
bottom line and give our customers a, uh, a, a price reduction.
So, it really-
Okay.
... would free us up and give us a lot of opportunity.
Okay, we'll just finally go to, um, Todd Stevenson.
Oh, Paul, thank you for that. Yeah, just a quick question 'cause we heard some, um,
evidence earlier that actually, uh, another insurer was doing
this and then only three people had actually downloaded the report.
Do you have any metrics on how many people then are actually,
yeah, downloading the reports that you're now at the moment re- quite detailed
reports required to produce?
Yeah, uh, no, we, we don't unfortunately.
Um, but I can tell you that every time we meet with investors, uh, we
have one investor on our, in our business who asks us about it, and no other
investor that I meets with, meet with asks us a question on it so
far. Um, and, you know, our, our full financial statements for
100... were 111 pages this, this full year that we published two, two weeks
ago. Uh, our climate statement was 61 pages.
(laughs) Um, so there's an awful lot of detail that has to go into that,
um, yeah.
Okay, thank you.
Thank
you. Thank you, Todd. And thank you, um, Paul, uh, for beaming in from,
uh, Suva this afternoon, and for your supplementary, um, submission and
appearing before us.
Thank you. My pleasure.
All-
Thank you for listening.
All best. Thank you.
Thank you. Thanks.
Okay, members, that leaves, uh, that leaves us with our final submitter, of course,
uh, Wendy McInnes from McInnes Institute.
Wendy, I think we might have had you last last time, so next time we promise we'll
put you first so you're not squeezed out.
(laughs)
But we're in your hands, and, uh-
Thank you.
... you can leave us with a little bit of time for questions too.
Thank you. That'll be lovely. I do have a PowerPoint slide, um, quickly.
Um, but I did want to say I agree with a lot of what Dean said, um,
i- in fact, uh, he picked up a lot of my key points.
Thank you, Dean. Um, Paul, the thing I would say with Paul's
response is that he's looking at it purely from a
reporter, and there will be definitely people that are looking at
his work (laughs) and, and I'll definitely be one of those.
Um, and I suppose my view is that y- y- you made that comment
earlier around the purpose, what was the purpose of this reporting?
It, it was a purpose more broader than financial
reporting. It was about trying to make an informed
society. It... I was involved in accrual accounting many
years ago, and basically had a situation where we were developing
accrual accounting in the public service and we knew that the standards would
evolve. That's a really good thing.
So what's happening in these discussions are brilliant, but, you know, I
wouldn't, I wouldn't sort of kick the can down the road becau- because
(laughs) , um, the preparers or the reporters don't like it.
They produce a massive amount of what we call non-GAAP
information, and I actually have a, uh, rather
substantial report that you will publish that I'm hoping that you might be
interested in. The point being is that what we've been trying to do is
get climate information into GAAP
information reporting.
Mm-hmm.
But the problem is you're gonna be pushing it back out into
non-GAAP. There is no way that they're not going to report on
climate, what the objective is, is that we try and
standardize it. And I think there are some really good solutions.
I thought, um, Dean's comment about differentiated reporting, you know, why
didn't you go there? Like that's easy.
Safe harbor, safe harbor's a really common tool that's
used around directors' liability, you just slap that on for
five years or even 10 years and you've got some really feasible
solutions. So what I want to do really quickly is go to my
PowerPoint, so that was just some high level comments,
um, I'm just going... Sorry,
it's just going.
Um, what was that message again?
So hopefully you can see it.
Yeah. We'll s- we'll circulate that PowerPoint too that you've sent in more
recently-
Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.
... if time, uh, evades us.
Yeah, I know, it's just not doing it's what it's meant to be. Slide sorter.
Uh. Sorry. That's just not my normal,
um, presenter view. Okay, let's hope that
works. Is that all right?
Oh. Okay. Can we...
Can you see that?
Can you see that now?
Um, no. No.
Okay.
You cannot or can?
No, we can't see it, no.
Okay. I- I do wonder so let me... bear with me,
um, there should be a share on the Zoom that maybe I haven't
clicked.
Sorry. Here we go. I'll keep the slides there just for
speed. Um, basically a change in threshold is really
significant, you're roughly, very roughly going from 118
reporters to 38, so that's, that's a really significant
change. Um, and that's, I've got the attachment supporting
that so you can see that. That's just for the NZX listed companies.
Um, more work needs to be done on understanding the implications of the
proposed... I kind of feel that it's been very ad hoc and
I know you've done a lot of consultation but hardcore evidence-based
research is really missing in this space.
Um, we did some work on, um,
analyzing the climate statements that have already been done, um, so
I- I'll s- I'll make sure you've got that as well.
Basically, I- I think it's actually been really successful, um,
but, you know, obviously I, there are people that disagree with me (laughs) but
it'd be interesting to have that, you know, more detailed discussion.
Legislation and d- standards evolve all the time, um, one of the things
that's happening at the moment is there's a NZ MFRS 18 which is
actually looking at a, a small part of non-GAAP
information that they're trying to bring back into GAAP and, and so
this, this sort of topsy-turvy stuff is actually quite normal
and is evolving, um, so you... but you just want to be careful
because if it's non-GAAP you need to understand there is no
magic formula, no comparison either over time
within a company or between companies or even between
industries. So you are going out to the cowboys basically and what
we want to do is make sure that we only standardize what we need to standardize
but I can tell you that the rise in non-GAAP
information in annual reports is
significant, it's at the cost of the
companies, they're just doing this because it's what they want to do, and it's
going through into the result announcements of NZX listed and the
USX. So we're actually seeing non-GAAP
information in those result announcements sometimes without
using any GAAP information to support it.
So we've got a major shock, economic shock risk that we're
putting into the system because we're not actually thinking about this as an
overarching system, and we're not thinking about differentiated
reporting across all the different, um, organizations.
That's really what our research is saying.
So I'm just going to go to six, the risk is that climate information will
increasingly become non-standardized and add further risks into the
market. Um, and there are, as I mentioned earlier, these alternative
solutions, so back to you for questions. Thank you.
Okay, okay, well, any questions, uh, for Wendy?
Straightforward.
Uh, Megan?
Thanks. No, just thanks, Wends- Wendy, I think that it's a really comprehensive
submission. Thank you.
Mm-hmm. And if you can send, uh,
uh- Alyse? ... we'll, we'll circulate the, the PowerPoint-
Okay.
... to members as well.
So thank you and I'm sorry that you've been rushed.
No, if I had one last comment.
Yes please.
O- only in next year think about working out a work
program that looks across and maps the whole
system, because I think NZX is right, there's a lack of balance,
USX et cetera.
We need to actually think very
strategically around what our
market and economy and our organizations and even our SOEs,
how does that all interrelate? And I don't think anyone's got a good grasp on that.
Okay, thank you Wendy, we really appreciate you appearing before us.
Thanks Wendy.
Thank you. Cheers.
Okay, that then ends the live s-